posts/sync.mdx, before:

---
title: Sync data with Anki
lastUpdated: 2025-10-07 16:25
---

Vocab Builder utilizes [AnkiConnect](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2055492159) to sync data with Anki. AnkiConnect is an Anki add-on that exposes an HTTP API, allowing other applications, scripts, or web apps to interact programmatically with Anki.

Since only the Anki Desktop app supports add-ons, you'll need a computer to perform syncing. Moreover, because AnkiConnect only works in a local environment, you must first export your data from Vocab Builder to a file (the default filename is data.json), and then use a separate script to process the exported data and perform the actual syncing.

The script can be found on this [page](https://github.com/OahMada/anki-sync/releases). Simply click the `sync-anki-cli.js` file, and your browser will start downloading it.

It would be much more user-friendly if the script were an executable, but I'm not an expert in Node.js, and I haven't figured out how to do that yet. For now, you'll need to have a Node.js environment to run the script. You can visit the [Node.js download page](https://nodejs.org/en/download) to install it on your computer. Once installed, you can run the script using the following command:

```
$ node <path-to>/anki-sync-cli.js <path-to>/data.json
```

For example, if both files are in Downloads folder, you can run:

- macos: `$ node ~/Downloads/anki-sync-cli.js ~/Downloads/data.json`
- Win: `$ cd %USERPROFILE%\Downloads && node anki-sync-cli.js data.json`

<Aside>
	If you know how to package the script into an executable and would like to help, please contact me at [haozg44@gmail.com](mailto:haozg44@gmail.com).
</Aside>

To recap, **here are the steps to sync your Vocab Builder data with Anki**:

1. Install Anki Desktop and the [AnkiConnect](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2055492159) add-on (remember to restart Anki after installing the add-on);
2. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download) on your computer;
3. Download the sync script `anki-sync-cli.js` from `Assets` on this [page](https://github.com/OahMada/anki-sync/releases);
4. Export data from Vocab Builder to a `data.json` file;
5. Open Terminal(macos) or Command Prompt(Win), and run the command shown above.

After syncing with the script, you can use Anki's built-in syncing service to sync your decks to AnkiMobile or other devices.

Inside Anki, each sentence generates three types of cards:

- Basic: sentence on the front, translation on the back;
- Reverse: translation on the front, sentence on the back;
- Type: type the entire sentence based on the translation (and optionally listen to the audio).

By default, Anki will automatically play the audio when you start studying. If you prefer otherwise, go to the deck's settings in Anki Desktop and check `Options → Don't play audio automatically` option.

<ImageOuterWrapper>
	<ImageWrapper>![Deck options button](/media/deck_options_button.png)</ImageWrapper>
	<ImageWrapper>![Option: Don't play audio automatically](/media/audio_autoplay_option.png)</ImageWrapper>
</ImageOuterWrapper>

Additionally, you can try the handy [SmarterTypeField](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1371444066) add-on to improve the typing experience — it enables case-insensitive matching and so on.

Commit message:

Introduce a more convenient sync method: with a browser extension called Vocab Builder Sync

posts/sync.mdx, after:

---
title: Sync data with Anki
lastUpdated: 2025-10-24 23:30
---

Vocab Builder utilizes [AnkiConnect](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2055492159) to sync data with Anki. AnkiConnect is an Anki add-on that exposes an HTTP API, allowing other applications, scripts, or web apps to interact programmatically with Anki.

Since only the Anki Desktop app supports add-ons, you'll need a computer to perform syncing. Moreover, because AnkiConnect only works in a local environment, you'll need to install a browser extension to perform syncing.

The extension, called `Vocab Builder Sync`, can be found on these link:

- Chrome: To be updated
- Edge: To be updated
- Firefox: To be updated

<Aside>
	The extension displays syncing status through system notifications, so please ensure that your browser has notification permissions enabled.
</Aside>

To recap, **here are the steps to sync your Vocab Builder data with Anki**:

1. Install Anki Desktop and the [AnkiConnect](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/2055492159) add-on (remember to restart Anki after installing the add-on);
2. Install `Vocab Builder Sync` in the browser;
3. Click the `Sync With Anki` button on Vocab Builder's account page.

<Aside>
	During syncing, AnkiConnect will download audio files for new notes, which may cause Anki to lag temporarily. Please be patient and wait for the
	sync to complete.
</Aside>

After your data is synced to Anki, you can use Anki's built-in sync service to upload your decks to AnkiMobile or other devices.

Inside Anki, each sentence generates three types of cards:

- Basic: sentence on the front, translation on the back;
- Reverse: translation on the front, sentence on the back;
- Type: type the entire sentence based on the translation (and optionally listen to the audio).

By default, Anki will automatically play the audio when you start studying. If you prefer otherwise, go to the deck's settings in Anki Desktop and check `Options → Don't play audio automatically` option.

<ImageOuterWrapper>
	<ImageWrapper>![Deck options button](/media/deck_options_button.png)</ImageWrapper>
	<ImageWrapper>![Option: Don't play audio automatically](/media/audio_autoplay_option.png)</ImageWrapper>
</ImageOuterWrapper>

Additionally, you can try the handy [SmarterTypeField](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1371444066) add-on to improve the typing experience — it enables case-insensitive matching and so on.
